THE MORE THE MERRIER,
BUT WHAT IF IT'S NOT
JUST TWINS BUT TRIPLETS
AND EVEN MORE?
TODAY,
THE FRUSTRATIONS...
I FEEL SO SORRY
FOR YOUR HUSBAND.
HE MUST BE SUCH
AN UNLUCKY MAN.
...AND FASCINATIONS
OF RAISING MULTIPLES.
THE BEST PART IS HAVING
TWO BABIES TO LOVE.
KALA, I JUST--
SHE'S LITTLER.
DON'T KEEP PUSHING HIM
TO CATCH UP.
Narrator:
BRAZELTON ON PARENTING.
( theme music playing )
MORE AND MORE PEOPLE
ARE TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF THE WONDERFUL ADVANCES
IN REPRODUCTIVE MEDICINE
TO HAVE BABIES
WHEN THEY OTHERWISE
COULDN'T CONCEIVE.
HOWEVER, THE INCREASED USE
OF THESE TECHNOLOGIES
IS RESULTING
IN AN INCREASE
IN THE RATE
OF MULTIPLE BIRTHS--
TWINS, TRIPLETS,
AND EVEN MORE.
THERE ARE LOTS OF UNIQUE
ISSUES A PARENT FACES
WITH MULTIPLES,
AND WE'RE GONNA TAKE
A LOOK AT SOME OF THEM,
STARTING WITH A PORTRAIT
OF A CUTTING-EDGE
HOSPITAL UNIT
THAT SPECIALIZES IN CASES
WHERE THERE'S
MORE THAN ONE.
WE'RE AT NORTH SHORE
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL
ON LONG ISLAND, NEW YORK,
THE CENTER
FOR MULTIPLE BIRTHS.
HOW ARE WE DOING TODAY?
DR. VICTOR KLEIN
HEADS A NEONATAL
INTENSIVE CARE UNIT
DEVOTED TO MULTIPLES.
EVERY BIRTH IS A MIRACLE,
AND MULTIPLE BIRTHS
ARE MULTIPLE MIRACLES.
Brazelton:
CARING FOR MULTIPLES
PRESENTS UNIQUE PROBLEMS.
FIRST OF ALL, THEY ARE
USUALLY BORN PRE-TERM
AND HAVE ALL THE USUAL
PREEMIE ISSUES.
BUT THE CHALLENGES
OF MULTIPLES ARE MORE
THAN JUST MEDICAL.
AT FIRST I WAS
REALLY HAPPY ABOUT IT.
I WAS THRILLED.
AND THEN YOU GO THROUGH
THAT PANIC A LITTLE BIT,
LIKE,  WHAT AM I GONNA DO
WITH THREE BABIES?
Brazelton:
THAT'S WHY THE HOSPITAL HAS
INSTITUTED A SPECIAL PROGRAM
THAT CONTINUES LONG AFTER
THE FAMILY HAS LEFT THE NICU.
IT'S CALLED
MOTHERS OF SUPER TWINS,
AND MAUREEN DOOLAN BOYLE
IS ITS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
IT'S VERY, VERY IMPORTANT
FOR FAMILIES TO KNOW
THAT THEY ARE FAR FROM ALONE,
THAT THERE ARE PEOPLE
OUT THERE THAT REALLY
TRULY DO CARE ABOUT THEM
AND THAT ARE INTERESTED IN
HELPING THEM AND SUPPORTING THEM
IN ANY WAY THAT THEY CAN.
IT'S FOR THE MOM
TO HAVE AN OUTLET,
FOR HER TO HAVE
A BIG-SISTER
PROGRAM AVAILABLE
TO MAYBE BE ABLE
TO GET TOGETHER
WITH OTHER MOTHERS
WHO HAVE TRIPLETS OR MORE
AROUND THE SAME AGE
SO THEY CAN DISCUSS
NOT JUST THE FRUSTRATIONS
BUT ALSO THE JOYS
AND THE CHALLENGES.
Brazelton:
LIKE, HOW IN THE WORLD ARE YOU
BREASTFEEDING MORE THAN ONE?
I WAS VERY INVESTED
IN NURSING THEM BECAUSE OF
ALL THE HEALTH BENEFITS--
PARTICULARLY FOR THEM.
I KNEW THAT THEY'D
BE SMALL AS TWINS.
EVEN THOUGH IT SEEMS
LIKE IT MIGHT BE MORE WORK,
A LOT OF THE THINGS
YOU DO SIMULTANEOUSLY,
SO IT ISN'T, LIKE,
TWICE AS MUCH WORK.
THEY'RE NURSING
EIGHT OR MORE TIMES
IN A 24-HOUR PERIOD?
- YES.
- GOOD GIRLS.
Brazelton:
THE PROGRAM TAKES
A LONG-TERM APPROACH.
KIDS COME IN
AT REGULAR INTERVALS
FOR FOLLOW-UP
TO MAKE SURE THEY'RE
DEVELOPING NORMALLY.
FORTUNATELY AT THE END OF
THE 20th AND THE BEGINNING
OF THE 21st CENTURY,
PREMATURE BABIES
IN GENERAL ARE DOING
EXTREMELY WELL,
PARTICULARLY THE MULTIPLES
GROUP, AND DESPITE THEIR
EXTREME PREMATURITY.
Brazelton:
AND THAT THE PARENTS
ARE DOING OKAY TOO.
CAN I HAVE
THE PHONE?
HAVE YOU BEEN ABLE
TO GET ALL THREE CHILDREN
ON THE SAME SCHEDULE, OR--
OH, YEAH, EVERYONE TAKES
A NAP AT THE SAME TIME,
THEY EAT DINNER
AT THE SAME TIME, BREAKFAST,
TAKE BATHS AT THE SAME TIME.
- EXCELLENT.
-* THE WHEELS ON THE BUS
GO ROUND AND ROUND *
Brazelton:
A SPECIAL PART OF THE PROGRAM--
THE PLAY GROUPS.
ALONG WITH BEING
JUST PLAIN FUN,
THEY SHOW THE KIDS
THAT THERE ARE OTHERS
JUST LIKE 'EM.
PARENTS GET TO SEE
THEY'RE NOT ALONE TOO.
Woman:
PEOPLE COME UP
AND SAY THINGS TO ME--
HOW DID YOU HAVE THEM?
WHAT DID YOU TAKE
TO HAVE THEM.
WE'VE ALSO HAD THE GRANDMA
THAT CAME UP TO US WITH
TEARS IN HER EYES
AND SAYING,  YOU HAVE SUCH
A BEAUTIFUL FAMILY. I HOPE YOU
APPRECIATE IT. GOD BLESS YOU.
THEN OF COURSE YOU HAVE
THE ONES THAT SAY,
OH, GOD BLESS YOU!
( all laughing )
BUT MOST OF THE TIME,
IT'S NICE THINGS.
THIS IS, LIKE, A REALLY
BIG ISSUE. HOW DO YOU GET OUT
OF THE HOUSE IN THE MORNING?
THE NIGHT BEFORE,
I HAVE THEIR COATS OUT,
THE HATS OUT.
I HAVE LITTLE BINS
IN MY BEDROOM
WITH THEIR NAMES ON THEM,
AND THEIR SHOES
AND THE SOCKS
AND EVERYTHING IS THERE.
ONE THING THAT WE RECOMMEND
FOR PARENTS TO CONSIDER
EVEN BEFORE DELIVERY
IS COLOR-CODING
DIFFERENT BABY ITEMS.
Boyle:
HAS ANYONE SEEN THEIR CHILDREN
HAVE A BOND THAT YOU THINK IS
JUST A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT
THAN OTHER SIBLING
RELATIONSHIPS?
WE HAD A STOMACH VIRUS
LAST WEEK,
AND THE FIRST ONE STARTED,
AND SHE WAS THROWING UP
AND SHE WAS BY THE TOILET BOWL,
AND ALL OF A SUDDEN I SEE
HER OTHER THREE SISTERS
SURROUNDING HER,
AND ONE IS RUBBING HER HEAD
AND THE OTHER ONE HAD
THE TOWEL ON HER HEAD
AND THE OTHER ONE'S
JUST STANDING THERE,
HOLDING HER HAIR BACK,
AND I THOUGHT THAT IS SO--
I MEAN, IT BROUGHT
TEARS TO MY EYES.
I'M, LIKE, LOOK AT THEM.
THE BOND IS REALLY, REALLY
SPECIAL AND BEAUTIFUL
AS A PARENT TO STAND BACK
AND TO WATCH.
Woman: MY NAME IS...
SNUFFLEUPAGUS.
- All: NO.
- NO?
Boyle:
AS THE BABIES DEVELOP INTO
TODDLERS, INTO YOUNG CHILDREN,
THEY REALLY KNOW
EACH OTHER IN WAYS
SO INTIMATE THAT YOU AND I
COULD ONLY IMAGINE.
AND THEY ALSO KNOW
HOW TO SOOTHE AND SUPPORT
EACH OTHER IN WAYS
THAT YOU AND I
REALLY DON'T UNDERSTAND.
HERE WITH ME TODAY
IS CRYSTAL HOLMES,
OUR INTERNET EXPERT
FROM I.B.M.
WHAT CAN PARENTS
OF MULTIPLES FIND
ON THE INTERNET
THAT HELPS THEM
THROUGH THAT NIGHTMARE
OF RAISING MORE
THAN ONE KID?
BERRY, I CAN'T IMAGINE WHAT
IT WOULD BE LIKE TO RAISE
MORE THAN ONE TODDLER
AT A TIME, BUT THANKFULLY,
THERE ARE A LOT OF RESOURCES
AVAILABLE ON THE INTERNET.
THE SITE WE'RE GONNA
LOOK AT TODAY IS
THE TRIPLET CONNECTION,
AND THIS SITE
IS KIND OF NEAT
BECAUSE YOU CAN ACTUALLY
ASK QUESTIONS,
AND WHAT THEY DO
IS GROUP THE ANSWERS
IN TOPICAL AREAS BASED UPON
WHATEVER THE CONTENT IS.
SO FOR EXAMPLE,
THEY HAVE TRIPLET TIPS.
LET'S TAKE A LOOK AT THOSE
AND SEE WHAT SOME OF THEM ARE.
THEY ACTUALLY HAVE EVERYTHING
FROM RAISING TRIPLETS
TO SCHOOL AND EDUCATION
AND SLEEPING
AND BEDROOMS AND NURSERIES.
LET'S LOOK AT
SOME OF THE QUESTIONS
THAT HAVE BEEN ASKED.
ONE OF THEM IS
A TIP, ACTUALLY,
THAT A PARENT HAS GIVEN
TO ANOTHER PARENT,
AND IT SAYS
THAT YOU SHOULD LET THEM
PARTICIPATE
IN THROWING DIRTY DIAPERS
AWAY IN THE PAIL.
I'D BE SCARED THAT
THEY WOULD MISS.
IF YOU START THE CHORES EARLY,
IT WON'T BE SO HARD
TO INTEGRATE
OTHER CHORES IN THEIR DAY
AS THEY GET OLDER.
THAT MAKES SENSE.
SO YOU CAN SEE
THAT ON THIS SITE,
THEY ACTUALLY HAVE
INFORMATION THAT'S USEFUL,
ONE PARENT TO ANOTHER,
TO HELP WITH THOSE
TRYING TIMES.
IT'S TOUGH
RAISING MULTIPLES,
BUT THEY MEAN
SO MUCH TO EACH OTHER
THAT YOU GET REALLY
JEALOUS OF HOW EXCITED
THEY ARE WITH EACH OTHER
AND WISH YOU COULD BE
IN THERE WITH THEM.
AND, BERRY, OUR INTERNET
QUESTION TODAY COMES FROM KELLY
IN CAMARILLO, CALIFORNIA.
HER QUESTION IS:
I'M WORRIED THAT THIS
WILL HAVE A NEGATIVE
IMPACT ON THEM.
HOW CAN I ENCOURAGE THEM
TO BE INDIVIDUALS?
YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK
THAT'S REALLY AS IMPORTANT
AS YOU MAY THINK IT IS
BECAUSE THESE KIDS MEAN
SO MUCH TO EACH OTHER.
TWINS HAVE A VERY SPECIAL
RELATIONSHIP.
IN FACT,
IT'S SO DELICIOUS
TO EVERYBODY AROUND THEM
THAT THEY'RE JEALOUS,
AND I'LL BET THESE KIDS CAN
BOUNCE OFF AGAINST EACH OTHER
IN WAYS THAT SUPPORT
THEIR OWN SELF-IMAGE
IN A LOT BETTER WAY
THAN BECOMING INDIVIDUALS.
SO I THINK I WOULDN'T
WORRY ABOUT IT.
Brazelton:
FOR MORE RESOURCES,
VISIT US ON-LINE AT:
,
PRESENTED BY
THE PARENTING INSTITUTE
AT pampers.com.
WITH ME TODAY IS
DR. MAUREEN O'BRIEN,
AUTHOR AND
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
AT BENTLEY COLLEGE.
MAUREEN, I KNOW
YOU HAVE TWINS,
AND I JUST WONDER,
WHY DO PARENTS
GET SO UPTIGHT
ABOUT WHEN THEY SHOULD
SEPARATE TWINS
WHEN IT SEEMS TO ME
TWINS TAKE DIFFERENT ROLES
RIGHT FROM THE FIRST?
I THINK FROM THE BEGINNING
WHEN YOU HAVE MULTIPLES,
PEOPLE TREAT THEM AS A UNIT,
AND YOU STRIVE FOR A LONG TIME
TO TREAT THEM
AS SEPARATE INDIVIDUALS,
BUT THE REALITY IS,
THEY GO THROUGH LIFE TOGETHER.
THEY GO TO SCHOOL TOGETHER,
THEY TOILET TRAIN TOGETHER,
THEY LEARN HOW TO WALK
TOGETHER, AND SO
EVEN IF DON'T
THINK OF THEM AS A UNIT
THEIR BEHAVIORS GO
THROUGH THE SAME SEQUENCE,
AND SO YOU'RE USED TO
THEM BEING TOGETHER.
AND ANYTHING THAT THREATENS
THAT FEELS LIKE A SEPARATION
THAT MIGHT HARM A RELATIONSHIP.
I THINK YOU
CONSTANTLY FIGHT IT AS
THE PARENT OF MULTIPLES--
HOW MUCH DO YOU
TREAT THEM AS
TOGETHER AND AS A UNIT,
AND HOW MUCH DO YOU THINK
OF THEM AS INDIVIDUALS?
IF THEY WERE FOUR YEARS APART
FROM ONE ANOTHER, THE QUESTION
WOULDN'T EVEN ENTER YOUR MIND.
YOU WOULD ALWAYS THINK
OF ONE AS THE OLDER SISTER
OR THE YOUNGER BROTHER,
BUT WHEN THEY
GROW UP TOGETHER,
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO NOT
CONSTANTLY
REMIND YOURSELF
THAT THEY ARE TWINS
BUT THEY'RE STILL
SEPARATE PEOPLE
WITH SEPARATE STRENGTHS
AND SKILLS
AND INTERESTS,
AND THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT JUST IS ALWAYS PART
OF HOW PEOPLE TREAT THEM.
THAT'S FASCINATING,
'CAUSE I NEVER HAVE THOUGHT
OF THOSE TWO FORCES
SORT OF WORKING TOGETHER--
THE INTERNAL FORCE
ON THE PARENTS' PART
AND THE EXTERNAL FORCE
WHICH THEY'RE GONNA HAVE
TO FACE SOONER OR LATER.
AND THE TWINS
THEMSELVES REMIND YOU.
THEY'LL SAY THINGS LIKE,
WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE
TO PLAY WITH.
THE PARENT SAYS,
YOUR BROTHER OR YOUR
SISTER'S RIGHT THERE.
BUT THEY'RE SO USED TO SEEING
THEMSELVES AS TOGETHER--
- A UNIT?
- YEAH.
- IS THAT GOOD?
- I THINK IT'S GOOD TO A POINT.
I THINK WHAT WE WOULD WANT
TO SEE IN THE TWINS, THOUGH,
IS THAT AFTER THEY GOT
COMFORTABLE WITH THEMSELVES
THAT THEY'RE JUST AS
COMFORTABLE BEING APART.
AND THAT'S WHERE THE SCHOOL
PRESSURES HAPPEN. BUT I DO
THINK THAT THERE ARE WAYS
THAT YOU CAN
HELP THEM ADJUST.
OF THE WAYS IS TO EDUCATE
THE PEOPLE AROUND THEM
TO NOT CALL THEM  THE TWINS.
YOU KNOW,
USE THEIR NAMES.
DON'T TRY TO GUESS
WHICH TWIN IT IS.
ASK THEM WHAT THEIR NAME IS.
IF IT WAS ANY OTHER CHILD,
YOU WOULDN'T SAY,
ARE YOU JOEY OR ARE YOU JANE?
- YOU'D SAY,  I CAN'T REMEMBER
YOUR NAME, WHAT'S YOUR NAME?
- REALLY?
AND SO YOU'RE ENCOURAGING
THAT SENSE OF, THEY'RE
JUST LIKE EVERYBODY ELSE.
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE ALWAYS SAY,
WHEN SHOULD I DRESS THEM
DIFFERENTLY?
SHOULD I GIVE THEM
INSIGNIAS
SO YOU DON'T HAVE TO ASK,
'WHICH ONE ARE YOU?'
- OR 'WHAT'S YOUR NAME?'
- MM-HMM, MM-HMM.
WELL, I THINK AGAIN
IT'S SORT OF THE ADULT VERSION
OF TRYING TO DECIDE
WHAT'S RIGHT FOR THE KIDS.
MOST PEOPLE DRESS
THEIR YOUNG TWINS ALIKE
SIMPLY BECAUSE
PEOPLE GIVE THEM
MATCHING OUTFITS.
- AND YOU TEND TO DO THAT
AND NOT THINK TWICE.
- SO YOUR SORT OF AT THE MERCY.
SORT OF.
AND THERE'S SOME CULTURAL
ACCEPTANCE FOR THAT,
AND IT'S FUN TO
HAVE YOUR KIDS NOTICED
AND HAVE PEOPLE SAY--
THERE'S SOMETHING IN IT
FOR THE PARENT TOO.
BUT I THINK IT REACHES A POINT--
ESPECIALLY TWO, THREE,
FOUR YEARS OLD,
WHEN THE CHILD IS REALLY
SUPPOSED TO BE WORKING ON
WHO THEY ARE AS A PERSON,
NOT,  WHO AM I COMPARED TO
MY BROTHER OR TO MY SISTER?
GEE, THAT'S FASCINATING,
'CAUSE I CAN FORESEE THAT--
OR I WONDER--
IF PARENTS OF TWINS
DON'T WANT TO KEEP THEM
TO BE EQUAL ALL THE TIME,
AND IT'S IMPOSSIBLE,
AS YOU SAY, WITH TWO KIDS,
SO WHY SHOULDN'T IT
BE TRUE OF TWINS?
MM-HMM. I THINK YOU WANT
TO TREAT THEM FAIRLY.
THINK  EQUAL  IS NOT
THE RIGHT WORD TO TRY
TO GO FOR AS A PARENT.
I THINK YOU DO WANT
TO BE FAIR. SO ONE
MIGHT BE A CUDDLER
AND NEED MORE
OF YOUR PHYSICAL ATTENTION.
ONE MIGHT BE MORE OF
A CURIOSITY TEMPERAMENT,
AND SO YOU'D NEED
TO TRY AND FIND WAYS
TO INTEREST THAT CHILD.
BUT IT'S NOT LIKE
THEY ALL HAVE TO BE
WITH YOU ALL THE TIME,
CLOCKING IT, TIMING IT,
IN ORDER FOR THAT TO BE FAIR.
AND ONE THING THAT I'VE SEEN
MULTIPLES DO BETTER THAN
OTHER KIDS IS THEY SAY,
HEY, WAIT A MINUTE.
IT WAS HIS TURN YESTERDAY.
IT'S MY TURN TODAY.
- REALLY?
- AND SO THEY REALLY LEARN
TO ADOPT THAT THEMSELVES,
WHICH IS A GREAT SKILL
WHEN THEY START GOING
OUT INTO THE WORLD.
- YOU MAKE IT SOUND LIKE FUN.
- IT IS FUN.
THAT'S WONDERFUL TO HEAR,
BECAUSE YOU HEAR
ALL THE HORRORS
THAT MOTHERS
OF TWINS GO THOUGH.
IT'S REALLY GREAT
TO HAVE YOU HERE
AND TALKING ABOUT IT
IN SUCH AN EXCITING WAY.
WELL, THANKS, IT IS FUN.
IT'S A LOT OF WORK.
IT IS A LOT OF WORK.
BUT THERE'S SO MUCH FUN
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF IT
THAT IT'S WORTH IT.
Brazelton:
NEXT, WE TALK TO PARENTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
Woman:
WE'VE SOLD OUT.
WE HAVE OVER 900 PEOPLE--
Brazelton:
EACH YEAR WE TRAVEL
ALL OVER AMERICA...
Man:
OUR COMMUNITY IS
SO EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
...TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
FROM THOUSANDS OF PARENTS.
Emcee:
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME
DR. T. BERRY BRAZELTON.
Brazelton:
HERE ARE SOME OF THEM.
HI, DOCTOR.
IT'S NICE MEETING YOU.
I'M THE MOTHER
OF FOUR DAUGHTERS.
I HAVE A 12-YEAR-OLD,
A NINE-YEAR-OLD,
AND I JUST HAD TWINS--
- BABY GIRLS.
- WONDERFUL.
THEY WERE BORN AT 32 WEEKS.
THEY WERE PREEMIES.
- THEY'RE DOING
REALLY, REALLY WELL.
- HOW OLD ARE THEY NOW?
- THEY'RE EIGHT MONTHS-- THEY'LL
BE EIGHT MONTHS ON TUESDAY.
- EIGHT MONTHS.
SO THEY'RE REALLY ABOUT
SIX MONTHS, AREN'T THEY?
'CAUSE I ALWAYS TAKE AWAY
- THE TWO MONTHS
THAT THEY WERE EARLY.
- RIGHT.
ONE OF THE TWINS, MICHELLE,
SHE'S, LIKE, RIGHT ON TARGET.
SHE ALREADY HAS
TWO TEETH.
SHE'S ROLLED OVER
AT FOUR MONTHS
BOTH WAYS.
AND KALA, I JUST--
SHE'S LITTLER.
SHE WAS TWO POUNDS,
TEN OUNCES
AND MICHELLE WAS
THREE POUNDS, 13 OUNCES.
BUT SHE'S STILL TINY.
EVEN THE PEDIATRICIAN SAID--
'CAUSE SHE WAS ON
HIGH-FORTIFIED FORMULA
AND TRYING TO REALLY
BEEF HER UP, WHICH SHE'S NOT.
SHE'S LITTLE.
SHE'S ABOUT 14 POUNDS NOW.
YOU THINK
THEY COULD BE A MONTH APART
IN THEIR GESTATION?
- I WAS THINKING THAT!
- WERE YOU?
I WAS THINKING
THAT ORIGINALLY.
YEAH, I DON'T THINK
WE GIVE ENOUGH CREDIT.
BECAUSE HERE'S THAT BABY,
- A LITTLE OVER
A POUND DIFFERENT...
- RIGHT.
- AND MORE IMMATURE...
-EXACTLY.
AND IT'S GOING TO TAKE LONGER
FOR HER TO CATCH UP.
- YEP.
-YOU THINK THAT'S POSSIBLE?
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS ALMOST
LIKE THEY WEREN'T EVEN
CONCEIVED AT THE SAME TIME
I SAID THAT SAME THING,
BECAUSE I KNOW
THE TWO TIMES.
- WELL, ME TOO.
- EXACTLY.
WE'RE BOTH GUESSING,
BUT THAT MAY BE--
I'M REALLY THINKING THAT
BECAUSE KALA ON HER OWN
IS RIGHT ON--
YOU KNOW, THE LITTLE ONE--
IS RIGHT ON TARGET
WHERE SHE SHOULD BE,
YOU KNOW, BUT--
OKAY, WELL, PULL YOURSELF
BACK AND SAY,
-  THEY'RE DIFFERENT AGES.
- OKAY.
BECAUSE YOU CAN WASTE MORE TIME
PUSHING A CHILD TO CATCH UP
IF THEY'RE NOT
READY FOR IT.
AND EVERY TIME YOU DO THAT,
YOU'RE SAYING TO HER,
I DON'T LIKE YOU
THE WAY YOU ARE.
- YOU DON'T WANT TO
DO THAT DO YOU?
-NO, NO.
NO, SHE'S REALLY SWEET.
- THERE ARE INSTANCES OF
THEIR BEING DIFFERENT AGES.
- YEAH.
MAY TAKE
VERY DIFFERENT ROLES.
ARE THEY?
- OH YEAH, THEY'RE TWO
- DIFFERENT-- DEFINITELY.
- ALREADY?
- AND YOU CAN TELL
THE DIFFERENCE ALREADY?
- ALREADY. OH, YEAH.
ONE IS MORE ACTIVE AND SORT OF
SHOWS OFF TO THE OTHER ONE?
- YEAH.
- AND THE OTHER ONE
SITS BACK AND WATCHES?
OH, YEAH, THEY WATCH EACH OTHER.
IF ONE'S CRYING, THE OTHER ONE
JUST LOOKS AND LAUGHS.
ISN'T THAT FASCINATING?
AND THIS ONE THAT IS
SITTING BACK IS LEARNING
FROM THE OTHER ONE.
- YEAH.
-AND WHEN THEY'RE
LEARNING MOTOR THINGS,
WHY, THIS ONE WILL LEARN
FROM THIS ONE.
I'LL BET WHEN
THEY START TALKING,
IT'LL SWITCH.
- OKAY.
- AND THE ONE THAT
STARTS TALKING FIRST,
WHICH MAY WELL BE
THE SENSITIVE QUIET ONE,
THE OTHER ONE
WILL LEARN FROM HER.
SO IT'S FASCINATING WITH TWINS.
THEY SWITCH BACK AND FORTH.
NOW, ONE THING I WANT
TO WARN YOU ABOUT--
DON'T KEEP PUSHING HIM
TO CATCH UP.
- OKAY.
-MOTHERS OF PREEMIES
ALWAYS SAY,
WHEN IS HE GONNA
CATCH UP TO HIS AGE?
- WHAT DIFFERENCE DOES IT MAKE?
- RIGHT.
WHAT YOU DO IF YOU IF SPEND
YOUR TIME DOING THAT,
YOU'RE JUST SPENDING
ALL YOUR TIME GOING UP
AND DOWN COMPARING THEM.
IF YOU STAY DOWN
WHERE THEY ARE--
AND WITH THESE TWO,
YOU GOTTA STAY WHERE
TWO OF THEM ARE--
THEN YOU GIVE 'EM
WHAT THEY NEED,
- WHICH IS BACK-UP
FOR WHAT THEY ARE.
- OKAY.
- AND YOU'LL HAVE
A LOT MORE FUN.
-OKAY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
GREAT!
MY NAME IS JENNIFER.
I AM A MOTHER
OF IDENTICAL TWIN BOYS
THAT ARE THREE,
AND THEY HAVE BEEN
WITH ME DOING HOME DAYCARE
SINCE THEY'VE BEEN BORN.
I'M WORKING ON
THE SEPARATION FROM ME
SO THAT I HAVE TIME
FOR MYSELF AWAY FROM THEM
BECAUSE THE ATTACHMENT
IS SO GREAT.
ONCE THEY ENTER
THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM,
TEACHERS SUGGEST
THAT I SEPARATE THEM
TO TWO DIFFERENT CLASSROOMS.
WHAT DOES THAT HAVE TO DO
WITH A SEPARATION ISSUE?
- FROM EACH OTHER.
- I SEE.  SO YOU FEEL
THEY'RE SO CLOSE--
I'M WORKING ON
THE SEPARATION FROM ME, BECAUSE
ONCE THEY ENTER KINDERGARTEN
I THINK I'LL HAVE A HARDER TIME
BECAUSE THEY'VE BEEN
WITH ME FOR SO LONG.
- SO MY QUESTION--
-YOU EVEN GET A LITTLE--
- YEAH, IT'S A BIG ISSUE FOR ME.
- IS IT?  UH-HUH.
SO, DO I SEPARATE THEM
FROM ONE ANOTHER?
YEAH.
HOW DO YOU FEEL?
- MIXED.
- I DON'T FEEL THAT
WE SHOULD SEPARATE THEM
UNTIL THEY'RE READY
TO SEPARATE THEMSELVES.
- AND HOW WILL I KNOW THAT?
- THEY'LL LET YOU KNOW.
THEY'LL WANT FRIENDS
OF THEIR OWN,
THEY'LL WANT TO DRESS
DIFFERENTLY,
AND IT'LL PROBABLY HAPPEN
AT ABOUT FIVE OR SIX.
SIX, MAYBE SEVEN.
- GOOD.
- TELL ME ABOUT YOUR OWN
ISSUES ABOUT SEPARATION.
- DOES THIS GO BACK--
- I'M JUST STARTING NOW.
- STARTING WHAT?
- LIKE, GO AN HOUR
AT NIGHT TO THE GYM
AND LET THEM BE
WITH THEIR DAD.
DO YOU THINK THIS GOES BACK
TO YOUR OWN CHILDHOOD?
MY MOM WAS HOME WITH US--
WITH ME-- UNTIL SECOND GRADE.
MM-HMM, SO THIS IS A KIND
OF RECAPITULATION OF THAT.
- I THINK SO.
- MM-HMM.
I BET IT GOES BACK
TO SOME OF YOUR OWN FEELINGS
ABOUT SEPARATION
AND HOW HARD IT WAS.
I THINK PEOPLE DON'T
FACE THIS, YOU KNOW,
IN THEMSELVES,
AND SO THEY MAKE IT HARDER
FOR THEIR KIDS
'CAUSE THEY'RE HAVING
SUCH A HARD TIME.
SO FACING IT IS REALLY
A VERY IMPORTANT PART OF IT.
THANK YOU.
HI.
MY NAME IS PAULA CARL,
AND I'M THE MOTHER OF
YEAR-OLD FRATERNAL TWIN BOYS.
FRATERNAL TWINS?
OH, YOU DON'T LOOK
EXHAUSTED ENOUGH.
YOU SHOULD HAVE
SEEN ME LAST YEAR.
MY QUESTION IS SORT OF
A CONCERN THAT I HAVE.
I WORRY ABOUT
COMPARING THEM A LOT
AND, YOU KNOW, CONVEYING
A SENSE OF FAVORITISM
OR AFFECTING
ONE'S SELF-ESTEEM
IN A NEGATIVE WAY.
WITH EACH NEW MILESTONE,
IT'S LIKE,  WELL, HE'S--
SMILED FIRST,
OR HE DID SOMETHING ELSE
FIRST,  AND SO I WORRY
ABOUT THAT A LOT.
- YOU JUST CAN'T
HELP IT, CAN YOU?
- RIGHT, I CAN'T-- I TRY.
ABSOLUTELY.
YOU'RE JUST BOUND TO.
AND YOU'RE BOUND TO REINFORCE
THE ONE THAT JUST DID IT.
- RIGHT.
-SMILE AT 'EM, SAY
SOMETHING TO 'EM.
- AND I'LL BET
THE OTHER ONE COLLAPSES.
- MM-HMM.
- AND SO YOU FEEL SO GUILTY.
-YEAH, EXACTLY.
- YOU FEEL LIKE,
WHY DID I DO THAT?
-YES.
DON'T FEEL GUILTY
AND DON'T NOT DO IT.
I BET THEY BOTH
HAVE VERY DIFFERENT ROLES
IN YOUR FAMILY.
- DO THEY?
- VERY DIFFERENT PERSONALITIES.
THAT'S WHAT I WONDERED.
TELL US ABOUT THAT.
WELL, ONE OF THEM WAS COLICKY
THE FIRST FEW MONTHS,
AND HE'S STILL VERY,
I'D SAY, INTENSE.
HE TENDS TO BE RETICENT
AND TAKES HIM A WHILE
TO WARM UP TO SOMEONE.
THE OTHER IS SORT OF
MORE EASILY SOCIAL
AND ENGAGING.
SO THEY SORT OF SWITCH ROLES
ALL THE WAY THROUGH.
AND YOUR QUESTION
ABOUT WHETHER YOU'RE PAYING
TOO MUCH ATTENTION TO ONE
AND NOT TO THE OTHER--
YOU KNOW, I'D SAY
THE SAME THING-- THAT IT'LL
BALANCE ITSELF OUT OVER TIME.
AND CERTAINLY
IF YOU LOOK FOR TIMES
TO REINFORCE THEM
FOR WHAT THEY'RE DOING,
THAT'S APPROPRIATE.
THEN TIMES WHEN
MAYBE WHEN YOU JUST
PICK 'EM UP AND HUG 'EM
AND SAY,  YOU KNOW,
I MISS YOU.
I HAVE TO PAY ATTENTION
TO YOUR BROTHER 'CAUSE
HE'S ALWAYS INTO TROUBLE,
SO I HAVE TO PICK YOU UP
AND HUG YOU.
AND THERE'S A NEW CONCEPT
OF HANGING-OUT TIME.
NOT JUST SPECIALTY TIME
BUT HANGING-OUT TIME.
SO MAYBE WHEN YOU
PICKED HIM UP TO LOVE HIM,
YOU'D SIT DOWN
IN A ROCKING CHAIR
AND JUST ROCK
AND SORT OF JUST SING TOGETHER
AND SEE IF HE'D SING WITH YOU
- AND MAKE UP
FOR IT THAT WAY.
-OKAY, THAT'S HELPFUL.
I THINK IT SOUNDS
LIKE A LOT OF FUN.
I WISH I COULD BE THERE.
THEY'RE BEAUTIFUL.
YES, THANK YOU.
- GREAT.
- ( applause )
Brazelton:
FOR MORE ANSWERS
AND INFORMATION,
VISIT US ON-LINE AT:
PRESENTED BY
THE PARENTING INSTITUTE
AT pampers.com.
THERE ARE LOTS OF CHALLENGES
FOR A PARENT OF MULTIPLES,
BUT I JUST WANT TO TAKE
A MOMENT TO POINT OUT
THE POSITIVES.
THERE'S REALLY NO OTHER
SIBLING RELATIONSHIP
AS CLOSE AS THAT
WITH KIDS BORN TOGETHER.
AND I SEE TWINS ESPECIALLY--
I SEE A SPECIAL BOND
THAT SOMETIMES MAKES ME JEALOUS
I'M NOT A TWIN MYSELF.
SO IF YOU DO
HAVE MULTIPLES,
VALUE THAT PRECIOUS BOND.
IT'S SOMETHING
THAT WILL SUPPORT THEM
AND ENRICH THEM
THE REST OF THEIR LIVES.
( theme music playing )